if you're going to make cultural
commentary videos I think it's actually
very important that you do so with a
spirit of trying to draw conclusions
about how we can all lead better lives I
think there's a sort of dangerous
delusion prevalent here on YouTube that
when you make a video commenting on an
inn you're somehow punishing Anacin or
policing initiative medium allows us to
do it all if a nishan were really a
space alien if a nishan were so far
removed from us in our own desires and
experiences if there were nothing to
reflect on in our own lives in the past
tense or in the hypothetical future
tense there would be nothing to be
learned from criticism or indeed
condemnation of what it is he's been
doing there's a screenshot here of him
making a fool of himself where he's
going out of his way to harshly
castigate several women from his past
telling them that they ought to move on
my point in this video is to reflect
very briefly on the fact that whether or
not it's linked to our own love lives
a romantic lives you should never put
yourself in this position of ordering
others deciding for others then it's
time for them to move on you said that I
had photos of people between 12 and 17
in various states of undress on an old
web forum although you forgot to mention
that went forums is a food that do not
post your unless you're 18 plus why do
all of you forget to post the money now
who's the liar you're saying that this
exists on a forum that was heavily
moderated and Admiral you can't post
unless you're 18 plus now let's go
through to this example real quick I'm
going to guess 22 and there's 17 I'd say
29 probably whoops no 15 well this girl
looks about 19 and she's actually 14
hypothetically if Lanie wasn't in the
picture but Greg dates you I'll let you
know in the video but no guys this is
gonna be boring as I would date most all
these people if this situation made
sense he'd be much older than me but oh
well snow not oh well I mean you're very
pretty but oh well z' is worth nothing
prism oh look a nine-year-old is anyone
really wondering what my answer is
finally a woman closer to my age things
uneasy I never says breath go ahead and
keep telling me about how you required
people to post photos only if there were
18 and it was heavily moderated even
though you made videos acknowledging
that they were underage as saying 24 23
and you're 14
obviously I'm much younger than him so
for that reason now but if there wasn't
an issue maybe I mean of course duh
whatever it's very well established that
it's hypothetical
I mean bra do you think that do you
think that the Internet is this slow
that we forget everything does he think
we forgot does he think that we forgot
this is someone who wants me to guess
their age there are over a hundred and
ninety eight pages oh boy
but I'm a big boy eighteen Wow it's an
honest mistake police officer I'm sorry
this one is 12 nope sarah said I won't
sign the NDA unless you sleep with me
she did want to do the butt thing
because it was something that had not
been hold on hold on you know what them
look the butt thing but yeah about that
I don't think I was clear before the
whole thing was Sarah she did want to do
the the butt thing because it was
something that had not been done before
she had already had that with other
people in the front so she wanted to do
it in the butt and I I just that was the
thing that we had as a choice to do and
when she was 18 and a half and she had
already said
so if you don't sleep with me I'm not
gonna sign this NDA that's what we did
[Music]
so look I have a first wife I have an
ex-wife and I'm still trapped in a legal
limbo with her going through the
paperwork of the divorce process years
years after splitting up you'll never
see me engage in this kind of rhetoric
and Sen engages it you'll never see me
revile in her and just telling her to
move on it's not for me to decide when
others move on and you know people can
be just as cruel when this is not of a
romantic or sexual nature you know there
was a time when I was really heartbroken
that all of my career aspirations in
Cambodia had fallen apart so in Cambodia
I was learning the Cambodian language it
was studying the history and politics I
was doing humanitarian work I was doing
research I was also connected to book
publishing about the history and
politics came by did all this stuff
going on and then it ends and ends in
disaster
it ends in a kind of heartbreaking way
where I have to completely give up on
Cambodia if you search the internet the
first evidence of my studying the
Cambodian language goes way back I
wonder if that was 2002 something like
that
there's you know me uploading stuff to
the internet showing that I'm already
starting to study Cambodia and the
Cambodian language I've had people say
to me in a cruel way like this like oh
it's over move on you know like okay
well this was this huge meaningful part
of my life now and now you know I did
move on I mean today this is now the
year 2020 I've moved on I never wake up
and wish I was back in Cambodia I never
even get tempted to crack open the
history books and go back to working on
Cambodian and a kind of textual academic
way right but there's still something
almost uniquely cruel in someone else
telling you to move on there's something
dehumanizing in this weird way about
saying no I'm gonna decide for you I'm
gonna decide that this ought to be
meaningless to you you know not not that
you should have detachment about it
you should be mature not that there's a
better way to have no no no no I am
gonna decide that this is something you
should forget about and you know the
past is not what you leave behind the
past is what you carry with you I don't
expect my ex-wife to ever forget about
me it doesn't make sense I meant more to
my ex-wife then you know Cambodia meant
to me I get it you know my ex-wife and I
had a child together she's raising that
child that child looks like me and talks
like me we have a remarkable you know
resemblance as a result of the magic of
DNA she's reminded of Who I am
every day including the fact that my
daughter has my name just that first
name I gave her and she has my last name
it says that on their post box and all
their legal paperwork and so on they're
you know like their it would be
completely unreasonable for me to just
tell my ex-wife to move on now
admittedly there are worrying signs that
my ex-wife still has a kind of malignant
ill-intentioned destructive set of
attitudes towards me even that she has
she she has a kind of obsession with me
and that there's a lot of malice in what
she does towards me she's had she's made
attempts to get this YouTube channel
deleted she puts in you know false
complaints against videos she's
collaborated with other youtubers to
denounce and defame me here on this
platform hilariously she mentioned that
in the divorce documents given to the
court at one point that was mine I I
don't mention YouTube stuff in my
department don't bring this up in legal
documents
she had her lawyers put forward this
argument that she shouldn't be held
responsible for things that other
youtubers said like on her behalf and
you know this kind of thing she's she
literally phoned up other youtubers so
like tell them dirt about me and try to
make videos today on TV like okay this
shows on health
the obsession this shows Millian intent
hey I'll mention it one more time she
phoned up another youtuber and when he
answered the phone he wasn't true she
was she was oh this is isil's ex-wife
and she angrily shouted at him over the
phone like know that she's not my
ex-wife that she's still my current wife
which obviously is at best a kind of
legal fiction and at worst you know a
sign of a sort of delirious obsession
apart okay as bizarre as that is and
like let's be real my situation it's
several levels higher than than this
this stuff in essence freaking out about
I mean initia is just freaking out about
people complaining that he was a bad
boyfriend that's really all this boils
down to and we all know he was a bad
boyfriend we know that's that's an
understatement
and he was a bad boyfriend in these
women's life at a time when in some
cases they were 16 17 18 even if they're
his relationship with some of them only
lasted for a year or two years it was at
a crucial turning point left of course
that's gonna cast a shadow over their
lives forever
it's gonna it's gonna be a big deal of
course it is apart from the fact that
he's a celebrity and his fame makes it
worse his money makes it worse his
control his influence his power makes it
worse the fact that in some cases he
publicly humiliated these women in
videos denouncing them videos that were
seen by hundreds of thousands of people
okay there are a lot of factors here
that make it really unreasonable and
mean-spirited for an Sen to just say
move on after he's discard these women
but in my situation which is in many
ways way more messed up than this Ian's
situation right you know I still have
lawyers involved I have my daughter
involved there there's a lot you know
wrapped up with it and rolled into it I
I still do not take this callous and
cruel attitude of telling someone to
move on it's it's really not anytime
you're tempted to do that anytime you
have to do that I'd really urge you in
the audience to stop and reflect on what
that means for you and what that means
for the other person
if a relationship has failed there may
be something there that you don't leave
behind in that failure there may be
something there you carry with you
forever and that's okay and we can have
detachment and compassion and kindness
in carrying that with us you know
forever
my dad got a woman pregnant they were
real young I'm sorry I forget if she was
like 19 or 21 or what this is this is
fact my father also was young he got a
woman pregnant and then they ended up
giving the baby up for adoption when she
this woman figured out that like
everything my father had told her was a
lie and he already had kids with other
women and you know this is horrible
horrible situation like that was the
first child she ever had right obviously
obviously she's gonna carry that with
her for the rest of her life I met her
once this woman who had a kid with my
dad and gave the kid up for doctoring
like obviously you are gonna carry that
with you for the rest of your life
that's gonna sheep who you are and how
you feel about the world in all kinds of
ways that you yourself may spend the
rest of your life
reflecting on and examining and there's
nothing worse you can say to a person
like that then hey that was 10 years ago
move on look what are you okay yeah that
was ten years ago so now the baby is
nine years old being raised by some
other family 20 years later it's never
it's never gonna go away 20 years it's
always gonna matter it's always gonna be
meaningful and you know I mean I mean
for me Cambodia is not the most extreme
example but but even then I can say the
role studying Cambodian as a language
and my engagement with Cambodian history
Pollock's the role that had in my life
sure there are some elements of that I
leave behind but there are some elements
of that I carry with me forever and that
makes me who I am for better and for
worse so that's it guy that's my message
to you in the audience in theory it
would be my message to annecy and if you
listen to anyone but you you've really
got to stop and reflect profoundly on
what it is you're doing
and what what it would mean for the
other person when you take that kind of
deliberative dangerous and I think
demeaning step of telling them to just
move on
[Music]